- [Instructor] Monitoring a system is critical
to its overall operations,
and quarkus provides a simple
and effective method to get health checks
and liveliness checks up and running,
which is very important to containerized world of Kubernetes
because you have to have a way to tell Kubernetes
that your application is ready.
So let's check that out.
All right, so let's jump into our room service,
and we're going to start with the pom file.
We'll go down here to the bottom
and we're going to add a dependency,
and the dependency that we're going to add
is quarkus
smallrye
health
from io quarkus
well that may even do its thing
and now from this point here
we can simply start our application
and once your application is up
and running let's jump to our web browser.
The first thing we're going to do is we're going to go
to local host 8080
slash health
slash live.
This is a liveliness check, very simple out of the box
but it tells you that the application is up.
Now we wrote zero code to get to this point.
That's very important.
You also get a similar thing with ready, but you'll see
that the readiness check actually digs a little bit deeper.
So now it's looking and says, is the app up?
And if it's up, what are details about its dependencies?
And in this case, we're using Apache Cassandra.
So let's jump back here to our IDE
and I want to show you how easy it is
to implement your own custom checks.
So let's go to source main Java
and let's create a new class
and we're going to call this readiness probe.
We're going to annotate this with readiness
and application scoped
and this is going to implement the health check interface.
Let's go ahead and implement that method
and what we're going to do,
is we're going to inject into this,
an instance of our room service
so that our readiness check can actually look
at the database and make sure that it's returning data
and not just connect to it.
Now, the reality is, it was pulling data from the system
in order to do it, but this is a little bit more clear.
So what we'll do here is we will return
a health check response
and we will name it,
custom
readiness check
naming conventions tend to be good when you're dealing
with things like this in the real world,
we're going to call up on it
and we're going to say with data and the data
that we're going to pass, it will be a room count
and we will get our room count
by calling a room service
dot get all rooms
dot size
and then we need to call build.
So now we can jump back over to our web browser
and now we'll refresh our readiness check and you'll see
we have a lot more information now
we still get the default readiness check
but now we have the custom readiness check
that I added that says that the status is up
and that we have a room count in our database of 29.
Obviously you can go much deeper in much more real world
but there is value to having things
like this as part of your readiness checks
especially when you have multiple operations at play.